---
layout: post
title: "Editors: Sublime, Atom and Brackets"
date: 2017-05-17
excerpt: "We’ve started writing some HTML now on the course using Atom. Atom is new to me, I’ve always used Sublime in the past. However, the two are pretty similar. However, it perked my interest about why people use some editors and not others. As a result, I listening to Editor Wars on the Programming Throwdown podcast. I had heard this mentioned before and I had it downloaded but had never got around to listening."
tags: [sublime, atom, brackets, text editors, coding]
comments: false
feature: "../assets/img/editors.png"
---

# Editors: Sublime, Atom and Brackets

We’ve started writing some HTML now on the course using Atom. Atom is new to me, I’ve always used Sublime in the past. However, the two are pretty similar. However, it perked my interest about why people use some editors and not others. As a result, I listening to Editor Wars on the [Programming Throwdown](http://www.programmingthrowdown.com/) podcast. I had heard this mentioned before and I had it downloaded but had never got around to listening.

They had some interesting comments on Editor philosophy. I know some developers become quite evangelical about which editor they use. Also, they discussed the benefits of shortcuts and customisation. Custom features are great as they save time, but it perhaps inhibits your ability to code efficiently on other developer’s machines because they don’t have the same shortcuts and features. Their point was: you’ll do the vast majority of coding on your own machine, so it’s not a major point. I think this is probably true.

### Sublime vs. Atom

Firstly, they covered some different types of Integrated Development Environment such as Vim and Emacs. I’ve seen Vim, but know nothing about it. Java specific IDEs like Intellij and Eclipse. My brief experience of Eclipse was trying to open it on my mac and it continually crashing. Then, they tackled Corporate IDEs such as Xcode and Visual Basic. As a Mac user, I am aware of Xcode. I haven’t used it. This section was useful to hear, but not that relevant to my level or experience of programming to date.

However, then they moved on to Sublime and Atom, which was my main reasoning for listening. It would seem the differences are between Atom and Sublime are fairly trivial. It is mainly driven by preference, rather than features. The podcast didn’t go into great depth on the programs, which was a little disappointing. It mentioned they were both “new kids on the block” and were pretty lightweight editors with a high level of customisation. One bonus Atom bears are that it is a free and open source text editor, Sublime is not. Atom is very extendible – there are plugins that allow you to control your Spotify music while coding for example. Also, they mentioned that with Atom there is a way to edit Github files through SSH, which would be interesting if I could make it work. Atom is built by Github, so it would follow that this is possible.

One point they mentioned which struck a note was that Atom and Sublime are simple text editors, i.e. you write code in them, but they don’t possess the ability to search a file tree like you might in an IDE. The podcast was recorded about a year ago, so I wonder if this is slightly outdated. I wouldn’t suggest Atom or Sublime are IDEs. However, both now possess this file tree structure. Also, Sublime Text 3 now also offers an in-built console, which would push it closer to IDE status.

### Brackets.io

An editor that I have heard positive things about, but not mentioned in the podcast (perhaps because it is relatively new), is Brackets. Brackets very much falls into the category of the type of editor that is currently occupied by Atom and Sublime. Brackets is tailored very much toward Front End Developers. It has very little server-side support. It is built by Adobe. The coolest and best feature is the live preview. Live Preview combines the handiness of dev tools with the functionality of a code editor, you can instantly see visual changes made to the HTML and CSS. This would be a major time saver – it prevents flicking through screens and the constant need to save and refresh. Taskrunners like Gulp, Grunt and Webpack are used to prevent the need for continually refreshing the browser to realise code changes. However, Brackets goes one further than this and allows you to see changes in your editor. This is a compelling reason to use Brackets if you are a one-screen developer or coding on the move! Since it is made by the makers of Photoshop, I have heard the design support is very strong. It’s forthcoming about design information like colours, fonts, and measurements. I’ve been meaning to try out Brackets for a while, but have yet to get around to it.
